I want to address a common
question that comes into play
when you're working with state
machines and XState in React.
And one of the main questions that
comes up is, how do machines with
useds machine or whatever,
how do they work with other libraries?
And so obviously, we can't make an adapter
for every single popular library.
So instead of doing that,
we essentially communicate via events.
And so that's what XState and just
the general concept of state machines and
state charts really provides as a benefit,
is that everything is one of two things.
It's either a state or
it's an events that you send to a machine,
which could in turn change the states or
execute actions or anything like that.
So in the complete app, you might have
noticed something in here called clock.
Now this clock is meant to be
sort of a time zone clock so
you could see what time it
is in other time zones.
But let's say that I want to
asynchronously fetch a list of time zones.
And I found this excellent world
time API that allows me to do that.
It returns me an array
of time zones in JSON.
And I could use those time zones
directly to change the time and
just get whatever time
it is in that time zone.
So I'm using useQuery,
which if you're not familiar,
React's query is an excellent library.
It's basically a caching solution.
It advertises hooks for fetching,
but it does a lot more than that.
It does have some advanced caching logic,
so
that you don't have to make repeated API
calls and all sorts of other things.
Now, there's no adapter for
using React query with XState's React,
but that's not the point.
The point is any change that happens or
anything you want to
communicate is done via events.
And same thing with side effects,
if you want any side effect to happen with
a certain library, you do that in actions.
And so you could do what
we did in previous lessons,
which is parameterize those actions and
execute them by calling the library.
So in this example, I'm fetching
the time zones from the world time API.
And I need to notify my
foreignClockMachine,
which I'll show you over here.
I have time zones in context
which right now is null but
I need to inform my foreignClockMachine
that I received some time zones.
And so we could do that via an event.
So notice, this machine knows
nothing about React's query.
It only knows of events that it receives.
So if we get that TIMEZONES.LOADED,
we could assign time zones to that
data that comes in that event.
And so
you could see it happens really fast, but
the time zones are loaded and
they populate this select drop down.
And then we could select one and then it
shows the correct time zone over there.
So what's great about this is,
if you decide to use something
different than React's query or
you want to tweak anything with
React's query or any other library,
if you're using an Apollo client, then
it could basically behave the same way.
So your component is essentially
communicating with the machine by
events and events only.
And I personally think that really
simplifies just how the logic
works in your application.
So yeah, that's how you could use
XState React with basically any library.
Any questions on that?
>> If that applies to server side as well
for node, cuz, I mean, I don't know, I
imagine there's probably a use case on the
server side for this stuff, too, maybe.
I don't no, but.
>> Okay, so that's a really good question.
The question was about whether this same
idea works on the node side as well.
So I can tell you from personal
experience that it definitely does.
And that's definitely
a really good use case for
basically how do you communicate
with other libraries,
whether it's on the server side or
on the client side?
One exercise that you could
do is actually try to
communicate with WebSockets
on the server side.
This is something that I had to do myself.
And the WebSockets API has a bunch of just
places where you could add callbacks.
And so those callbacks are places where
you could send in events to a machine.
And so the machine's actions can also
do things to that WebSocket as well.
So definitely a use case and
I have done that in the past.